received for the different competing schemes of various Mutual Funds from amongst which the scheme is being recommended to the investors. 6. Abstain from indicating or assuring returns in any type of scheme, unless the SID is explicit in this regard. 7. Maintain necessary infrastructure to support the AMCs in maintaining high service standards to investors, and ensure that critical operations such as forwarding forms and cheques to AMCs/registrars and despatch of statement of account and redemption cheques to investors are done within the time frame prescribed in the SID/SAI and SEBI’s Mutual Fund Regulations. 326 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination 8. Desist from colluding with investors in faulty business practices such as bouncing of cheques, wrong claiming of dividend/redemption cheques, splitting of applications in the schemes to circumvent regulations for any benefit, etc. 9. Abstain from commission driven malpractices such as: recommending inappropriate products solely because the intermediary is getting higher commissions there from. encouraging over transacting and churning of Mutual Fund investments to earn higher commissions. Splitting of applications to earn higher transaction charges / commissions. 10. Abstain from making negative statements about any AMC or scheme and ensure that comparisons, if any, are made with similar and comparable products along with complete facts. 11. Intermediaries shall keep themselves abreast with the developments relating to the Mutual Fund Industry as also changes in the scheme information and information on mutual fund / AMC like changes in fundamental attributes, changes in controlling interest, loads, liquidity provisions, and other material aspects and deal with the investors appropriately having regard to the up to date information. 12. Maintain confidentiality of all investor details, deals and transactions. 13. Intermediaries shall keep investor’s interest and suitability to their financial needs as paramount and that extra commission or incentive should never form the basis for recommending a scheme to the investor. 14. Intermediaries shall not rebate commission back to investors and abstain from attracting investors through temptation of rebate/gifts etc. 15. To protect the investors from potential fraudulent activities, intermediary should take reasonable steps to ensure that the investor’s address and contact details filled in the mutual fund application form are investor’s own details, and not of any third party. Where the required information is not available in the application form, intermediary should make reasonable efforts to obtain accurate and updated information from the investor. Intermediaries should abstain from filling wrong / incorrect information or information of their own or of their employees, officials or agents as the investor’s address and contact details in the application form, even if requested by the investor to do so. Intermediary should abstain from tampering in any way with the application form submitted by the investor, including inserting, deleting or modifying any information in the application form provided by the investor. 16. Intermediaries, including the sales personnel of intermediaries engaged in sales / marketing, shall obtain NISM certification and register themselves with AMFI and obtain an Employee Unique Identification Number (EUIN) from AMFI apart from AMFI Registration Number (ARN). The Intermediaries shall ensure that the employees quote the EUIN in the application form for investments. The NISM certification and AMFI 327 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination registration shall be renewed on timely basis. Employees in other functional areas should also be encouraged to obtain the same certification. 17. Intermediaries shall comply with the Know Your Distributor (KYD) norms issued by AMFI. 18. Co-operate with and provide support to AMCs, AMFI, competent regulatory authorities, due diligence agencies (as applicable) in relation to the activities of the intermediary, or any regulatory requirement and matters connected thereto. 19. Provide all documents of its investors in terms of the Anti-Money Laundering / Combating Financing of Terrorism requirements, including KYC documents / Power of Attorney / investor’s agreement(s), etc. with Intermediaries as may be required by AMCs from time to time. 20. Be diligent in attesting / certifying investor documents and performing In Person Verification (IPV) of investor’s for the KYC process in accordance with the guidelines prescribed by AMFI / KYC Registration Agency (KRA) from time to time. 21. Adhere to AMFI guidelines and Code of Conduct issued from time to time related to distributors, selling, distribution and advertising practices. 22. Intimate the AMC and AMFI any changes in the intermediary’s status, constitution, address, contact details or any other information provided at the time of obtaining AMFI Registration. 23. Observe high standards of ethics, integrity and fairness in all its dealings with all parties – investors, Mutual Funds/ AMCs, Registrars & Transfer Agents and other intermediaries. Render at all times high standards of service, exercise due diligence, and ensure proper care. 24. Intermediaries satisfying the criteria specified by SEBI for due diligence exercise, shall maintain the requisite documentation in respect of the “Advisory” or “Execution Only” services provided by them to the investors. 25. Intermediaries shall refund to AMCs, either by set off against future commissions or payment, all incentives of any nature, including commissions received, that are subject to claw-back as per SEBI Regulations or the terms and conditions issued by respective AMC. 26. In respect of purchases into any fund with effect from January 1, 2013, in the event of any switches from Regular Plan (Broker Plan) to Direct Plan, all upfront commissions paid to distributors shall be liable to complete and / or proportionate clawback. 27. Do not indulge in fraudulent or unfair trade practices of any kind while selling units of schemes of any mutual fund. Selling of units of schemes of any mutual fund by any intermediary directly or indirectly by making false or misleading statement, concealing or omitting material facts of the scheme, concealing the associated risk factors of the schemes or not taking reasonable care to ensure suitability of the scheme to the investor will be construed as fraudulent / unfair trade practice. Note: SID should be read in conjunction with SAI, and not in isolation. 328 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination Norms by SEBI Over the last few years, SEBI has been introducing new regulations and procedures to comply with various regulatory requirements as well as those laid down under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. These new regulations are applicable to distributors registered under AMFI as well as persons who wish to invest in Mutual funds. a. KYC for investors (Know your Client) In order to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, strict norms were required for identifying such people who enter into financial transactions under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. SEBI accordingly issued guidelines for financial institutions and financial intermediaries (including mutual funds) to know their clients. Every individual who wishes to invest in a mutual fund, whether lump sum or by SIP, has to be KYC compliant. An individual has to provide personal details such as name, address, financial status, occupation and other personal information in the prescribed KYC form. Along with the same, individual investors are required to produce proof of identity and proof of address, as prescribed, in the form. Non-individual investors are required to produce documents relating to its constitution/ registration to fulfil the KYC process. A centralized platform has been carved out to carry out the KYC procedures across all market intermediaries. Various Points of Services (PoS) have been provided where the KYC application forms along with the verification documents are accepted and the KYC acknowledgement is provided to the investor. Once the KYC procedure is duly completed in all regards, the investor needs to produce a copy of the acknowledgement when investing for the first time with a mutual fund or any other market intermediary. KYC is mandatory for all investors (individuals and non-individuals) in a mutual fund scheme, irrespective of the amount invested. In case of joint applications for a fund, all the joint holders need to be KYC compliant. For investments by a minor, the Guardian should be KYC compliant. The minor, upon attaining majority, should immediately apply for KYC compliance in his/ her own capacity and intimate the concerned mutual funds. Investors who wish to invest through a Power of Attorney (PoA) holder have to ensure that both the investor and the PoA holder should be KYC compliant. b. KYC Registration Agencies SEBI has issued the KYC Registration Agency Regulations, 2011 in exercise of the powers conferred under the SEBI Act. 329 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination Under the said Regulations, a KYC Registration Agency (KRA) is a company formed and registered under the Companies Act, 2013 and which has been granted a certificate of registration under the Regulations. The KRA shall obtain the KYC documents of the client from the intermediaries. The KRA maintains the KYC records of an investor centrally, on behalf of the capital market intermediaries registered with SEBI. It is also responsible for retaining the original KYC documents of investors in both physical and electronic form for the prescribed period. KRA accepts the KYC forms and documents pertaining to proof of identity and proof of address received from intermediaries. It scans, digitalizes the documents and thereafter issues acknowledgements/ conveys rejections to the investor. c. KYD for distributors (Know your Distributor) Under SEBI’s advice, AMFI had to review the existing registration procedure for mutual fund distributors and initiate necessary action to strengthen the same to ensure correctness of information furnished in the registration application and also to have in person verification of the ARN holders. AMFI has therefore introduced the Know Your Distributor (KYD) process for the mutual fund distributors with effect from September 1, 2010. The KYD procedure consists of document verification and Bio-metric process. Every mutual fund distributor is therefore required to apply for KYD simultaneously along with application for registration of the ARN code. The KYD norms is similar to the KYC norms for investors, requiring the distributors to submit identity proof, address proof, PAN and bank account details with proof for verification. AMFI has engaged Computer Age Management Services Ltd. (CAMS) to carry out the KYD process through their centres across the country. Once the said process is done, the distributor would have to obtain the acknowledgement from CAMS confirming the completion of the KYD process. 12.7. Ethical Issues in providing Financial Advice Financial Intermediary – a Perspective The main role of a financial intermediary is channelizing the domestic savings into various investment vehicles available. On the one hand the intermediary helps the issuer in mobilizing resources for development/implementation of projects while on the other hand he helps the investor obtain a reasonable return on his investment. In the Indian financial market, there are many products with complexities which the common man/the small 330 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination investor may not understand. It is the financial intermediary who should take the most suitable product to the retail investor that would serve the needs of the investor best and help in fulfilling his financial goals. The intermediary plays a key role in the successful achievement of financial goals of many Indian families. The financial intermediary should realize that he would be very successful if he focuses on his clients and the clients’ needs rather than on his own needs. It would be useful for the intermediary to keep in mind this following very famous quotation of Zig Ziglar, the world renowned corporate motivator: “You can have everything in life you want; if you will just help other people get what they want”. The intermediary many times works on targets and goes about selling financial products aggressively to achieve the targets with in a time frame. While doing this sometimes the suitability of the product to the investor is lost sight of. The investor should be centre of the activity and his interest should be uppermost in the minds of the advisors. It is important for the advisor/intermediary to nurture and take care of the financial well-being of his clients to reap long term benefits. The main problems/investor grievance areas in the advisory business can be highlighted as under: 1. Advisor’s lack of focus on understanding client specific situations so as to provide appropriate advice. 2. Advisors’ lack of understanding of the financial product which he is selling 3. Advisors’ lack of information about overall market and other available financial products 4. Adopting wrong practices like frequent switching from one product to another to increase earnings from commissions. 5. Not educating/informing the investor about risks; uncertainties about financial products that are sold, while highlighting only the good features of the product. 6. Poor after sales service 12.8. Investor Complaint redressal systems Different regulators have developed different systems and platforms to provide a redressal mechanism to investors for grievances that they may have against market intermediaries. SEBI has developed a centralized web based system for lodging and tracking investor complaints which is known as SCORES (SEBI Complaint Redress System). Any person, who has a grievance against a listed company (e.g. non-payment of dividend or issues related to transfer of securities) or against any market intermediary, can file a complaint using SCORES. 331 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination SCORES can accept complaint against any market intermediary that is registered with SEBI. This includes R&T Agents, Portfolio Managers, Depositories and its participants, Debenture Trustees, Credit Rating Agencies, Custodians, Stock Exchanges, Merchant Bankers, Asset Management Companies, Collective Investment Schemes, Bankers to an Issue and Brokers. A complaint registered on SCORES is scrutinized by SEBI to determine if the subject matter falls under its purview. If it falls under SEBI’s purview, it will forward the complaint to the concerned entity/intermediary, with an advice to send a written reply to the investor. The entity or intermediary also needs to file an action taken report in SCORES within a reasonable period, not later than 30 days. Stock exchanges have been directed by SEBI to resolve disputes at their end within 15 days, failing which the conciliation process of the exchange would start. The Investor Grievance Redressal Committee shall be allowed 15 days to amicably resolve the issue. Else the IGRC will estimate the claim value, in case the claim is admissible to the investor, and the investor will be given monetary relief from the Investor Protection Fund in a phased manner, till the arbitration process opted for by the member is complete The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) have launched an online grievance redressal mechanism called the Integrated Grievance Management System (IGMS). The facility can be used to register complaints against insurers, brokers, intermediaries and others. The nature of complaints that can be registered include those relating to processing the proposal, servicing a policy and claims. Complaints against life and non-life insurers can be registered on the portal. The National Pension System (NPS) has a multi-layered Grievance Redressal Mechanism. An NPS subscriber who is not satisfied with the services offered, or has any other grievance, can lodge his compliant using the Central Grievance Management System (CGMS) for complaint resolution and grievance redressal for NPS subscribers. Customers of banks who face a deficiency of service can apply to the banking ombudsman for redressal under the Banking Ombudsman Scheme of the RBI. The scheme covers customers of scheduled commercial banks and primary cooperative banks if their complaints are not addressed by the concerned bank or if they are unsatisfied with the response of the bank. 332 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination Summary Any person who proposes to provide investment advice as an investment adviser shall be required to obtain a registration certificate from SEBI in order to continue to do this activity. The certificate of registration granted by SEBI is valid for a period of five years from the date of its issue. The term “investment advice” means any form of advice provided in relation to investment, purchase, sale or dealing in securities or investment products. It also includes advice on a portfolio of securities or investment products and financial planning. The following entities are exempt from the requirement of registration: o Any person who gives general comments on financial trends, economic situation which is not stock/product specific. o Insurance agents or brokers providing investment advice only in insurance products, o Pension advisors offering investment advice only on pension products, o Mutual fund distributor, who provides investment advice incidental to distribution of mutual fund products o Advocates, Solicitors, member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, member of Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India, Actuarial Society of India or any other professional body providing investment advice incidental to their professional service. o Stock broker or sub-broker, portfolio manager registered under SEBI (Portfolio Manager) Regulations, 1993, merchant banker providing investment advice incidental to their primary activity. o Fund managers of mutual funds, alternative investment funds. o A person providing investment advice only to clients based out of India, not being Non Resident Indians or Persons of Indian Origin. An investment adviser must have a professional qualification/post-graduate degree in specified fields or a graduate degree along with 5 years experience in the specified fields. Additionally, the investment adviser shall have a certification from NISM or any other organization or institution provided that such certification is accredited by NISM. For investment advisers which are body corporate, net worth of not less than Rupees Twenty Five Lakhs has been stipulated rupees. Investment advisers who are individuals or partnership firms shall have net tangible assets of value not less than Rupees One Lakh. 333 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination The Regulations require that advisers must ensure there is no conflict of interest and earn only advisory fees from the clients. They must maintain confidentiality of investors’ transactions. The adviser shall comply with all rules in force such as the KYC norms and abide by the code of conduct. The adviser shall use tools to profile the investor’s risk and recommend products that are aligned to it. They shall maintain records in the form and for the period required by the Regulations. The Regulations expect the advisers to be honest and fair in their dealing with the clients, collect and use relevant information and make adequate disclosures to the clients, avoid conflict of interest and comply with all regulations. The ministry of finance through the departments of economic affairs, expenditure, revenue, financial services, disinvestment and company affairs, regulate and control all aspects of monetary and fiscal policy, financial products, institutions and markets. RBI is the central bank of the country and is vested with the responsibility of administering the monetary policy. It is the monetary authority, regulator of the financial system, issuer of currency, manager of foreign exchange and acts as a banker of the government. SEBI is the regulator of capital markets in India and is responsible for registering and regulating the entities and their activities. IRDA’s mission is to regulate, promote and ensure orderly growth of the insurance sector. The Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) bill was passed in Parliament and became an act in 2013. This has given statutory power to PFRDA as regulator of the pension sector in the country. An SRO is a regulatory authority of an industry, appointed by the regulator to perform specific functions. SRO in India is governed by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) Regulations, 2004. An SRO is an organization of intermediaries which represents a particular segment of the securities market and which is duly recognized by SEBI. The Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA), is an act to prevent money- laundering and to provide for confiscation of property derived from, or involved in, money-laundering and for related matters. Code of Conduct for the intermediaries in the advisory and distribution business is prescribed by the regulators such as SEBI and IRDA and industry associations such as AMFI. 334 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination Sample Questions 1. Which of the following persons is expected to comply with registration requirement under SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013: a. Fund Manager of an AMC b. A distributor of a mutual fund who only receives commission from the AMC. c. An IFA who charges advisory fees to investors d. A Chartered Accountant practicing his profession 2. The minimum tangible assets to be maintained by an individual investment adviser are Rs. _______. a. 1 lakh b. 25 lakhs c. 5 lakhs d. 10 lakhs 3. Registration and regulation of securities market intermediaries is the function of _____. a. AMFI b. SEBI c. PFRDA d. SRO 4. A person who has a complaint against an insurance company must lodge his complaint with___. a. SCORES b. IGMS c. CGMS d. RBI 335