NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination Sample Questions 1. Commission received from business forms part of income from ___________. a. Business and profession b. Capital Gains c. Salary d. Other sources 2. Long term capital gain from sale of shares is ____________________. a. Taxed at 10% b. Exempt from tax c. Taxed at 20% d. Taxed at 15% with indexation 3. The Rajiv Gandhi Equity Savings Scheme, 2012 allows exemption up to _______ for investments made in eligible securities up to Rs. 50,000. a. 100% b. 50% c. 40% d. 60% 4. For a person to be qualified as a NRI, he must have stayed outside India for more than _____ days in a previous financial year. a. 365 b. 280 c. 182 d. 150 308 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination CHAPTER 12: REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT AND ETHICAL ISSUES 12.1. Regulation for Investment Advisers SEBI notified the SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulation, 2013 in January 2013 with a view to regulate the activity of providing investment advisory services in various forms by independent financial advisors, distributors, banks, and other such entities. The said Regulations become effective from April 2013. 12.1.1. Definition and Requirement to Register a. Certificate of registration Any person who proposes to provide investment advice as defined under the regulations or who qualifies under the definition of “Investment Adviser” shall be required to obtain a registration certificate from SEBI in order to continue to do this activity. A six month period has been allowed for existing investment advisers to apply for certification. These investment advisers may continue to provide advisory services till their application is processed. The certificate of registration granted by SEBI is valid for a period of five years from the date of its issue. An investment adviser needs to apply for renewal of his registration certificate, three months before expiry of the original certificate of registration. b. Investment advice and Investment adviser The term “investment advice” has been specifically defined under the regulations. It means any form of advice provided in relation to investment, purchase, sale or dealing in securities or investment products. It also includes advice on a portfolio of securities or investment products and financial planning. Such advice may be provided as a written advice or an oral recommendation or through any other mode such as email aimed at the benefit of the client. However, advice that is widely available to the public through newspapers or internet or magazines is not considered as investment advice under the regulations. 12.1.2 Exemptions Any person who provides investment advice to his clients is known as an investment adviser. However, the investment adviser regulations have exempted certain categories of persons from the requirement of registration. These include: Any person who gives general comments on financial trends, economic situation which is not stock/product specific. Insurance agents or brokers providing investment advice only in insurance products, Pension advisors offering investment advice only on pension products, Mutual fund distributor, who provides investment advice incidental to distribution of mutual fund products 309 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination Advocates, Solicitors, member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, member of Institute of Company Secretaries of India, Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India, Actuarial Society of India or any other professional body providing investment advice incidental to their professional service. Stock broker or sub-broker, portfolio manager registered under SEBI (Portfolio Manager) Regulations, 1993, merchant banker providing investment advice incidental to their primary activity. Fund managers of mutual funds, alternative investment funds. A person providing investment advice only to clients based out of India, not being Non Resident Indians or Persons of Indian Origin. 12.1.3 Qualification &Certification Requirements and Capital Requirement a. Qualifications: The Regulations specify certain minimum qualifications for a person to be eligible to be known as an investment adviser. If an individual seeks registration as an investment adviser, or a partner or representative of an investment adviser registered under the Regulations must possess these qualifications. A professional qualification or a post graduate degree or post graduate diploma in finance, accountancy, business management, commerce, economics, capital market, banking, insurance or actuarial science from a university or an institution recognized by the central government or any state government or a recognised foreign university or institution or association OR A graduate in any discipline with an experience of at least five years in activities relating to advice in financial products or securities or fund or asset or portfolio management. b. Certification Requirement: An investment adviser must obtain valid certification on financial planning or fund or asset or portfolio management or investment advisory services from NISM or from any other organization or institution including Financial Planning Standards Board India or any recognized stock exchange in India provided that such certification is accredited by NISM. Existing investment advisers seeking registration must ensure that their partners and representatives obtain such certification within two years from the date of commencement of the Regulations. c. Capital Requirement In order to ensure financial stability of an investment adviser, the Regulations have mandated that investment advisers must have net worth above a minimum threshold at all times. For investment advisers which are body corporate, net worth of not less than Rupees Twenty Five Lakhs has been stipulated rupees. Investment advisers who are 310 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination individuals or partnership firms shall have net tangible assets of value not less than Rupees One Lakh. Investment advisers in existence before commencement of the Regulations must comply with the capital adequacy requirement within one year from the date of commencement. 12.1.4 Obligations and Responsibilities of Investment Advisers a. General Obligations The nature of service that is provided by investment advisers is directly related to the financial situation of their clients. The relationship between the investment adviser and client is that of trust and the investment adviser, while performing his role, should act in good faith in the best interests of the client. The Investment Adviser Regulations have cast upon investment advisers certain obligations and responsibilities while providing investment advisory services. Conflicts of interest: It is imperative that the investment adviser discloses all conflicts of interest to the client as and when they arise. Only advisory income: An investment adviser must not receive any consideration or remuneration from anyone except the client in respect of securities or investment products for which he has provided advice. Segregation of other activities: There must be segregation of other business activities from investment advisory activity of the investment advisor. An arm’s length relationship must be maintained between investment advisory activity and such other activities. If a conflict of interest arises, the same shall be disclosed to the client. Confidentiality: The investment adviser must maintain strict confidentiality with respect to the information received from the client. Own transactions: The investment adviser should not carry out transaction contrary to his advice to clients on his own account unless 15 days have passed from the date of providing the advice. However, during the 15 day period, if in the opinion of the adviser the situation has changed, he should first make a revised assessment to client at least 24 hours before carrying out such a transaction. An advisor must also not act on its own account, knowingly to sell securities or investment products to or purchase securities or investment product from a client. KYC compliance: An investment advisor shall follow Know Your Client procedure as specified by SEBI from time to time. Code of Conduct: An investment adviser must abide by the Code of Conduct as specified in Third Schedule of the Investment Adviser Regulations. Reporting to SEBI: The investment adviser must file periodic reports or information to SEBI as may be required from time to time and take prior approval from SEBI if there is a change in control of the investment adviser. 311 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination Certification and Qualification: It shall be the responsibility of the Investment Adviser to ensure that its representatives and partners comply with the certification and qualification requirements stipulated by the Investment Adviser Regulations at all times. There are specific areas in which an investment adviser needs to put systems and procedures in place in order to comply with the responsibilities cast by the Regulations. b. Risk Profiling The investment advice and asset allocation for an investor would have to be customized to the ability and willingness of the investor to assume risk. This is determined by a risk profiling exercise, which seeks to assess the attitude towards risk and possible loss in the portfolio and the willingness to pursue an investment plan, after understanding the underlying risks. Information: It is the responsibility of the investment adviser to ensure that he obtains from the client, such information as is necessary for the purpose of giving investment advice. This information includes age, investment objective, investment horizon, income details, existing assets and liabilities and risk appetite. Information provided by clients and their risk assessment must be updated periodically. Risk assessment: There must be a process in place for assessing the risk that a client is willing and able to take. Risk profile of the client must be communicated to the client after risk assessment completed. Risk assessment includes the following aspects: 1. Assessing a client’s capacity for absorbing loss; 2. Identifying whether client is unwilling or unable to accept the risk of loss of capital; 3. Appropriately interpreting client responses to questions and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers. Risk profiling tools: The investment adviser may use various tools such as surveys, questionnaires, proprietary tools to generate risk appetite scores of clients. Where such tools are used for risk profiling, the investment adviser must ensure that the tools are fit for the purpose and any limitations have been identified and mitigated. Such tools should not be too complex or misleading for the client to understand and express a fair opinion. c. Suitability It is the responsibility of the Investment adviser to ensure the following: Investment advice and related investments are appropriate to the client’s risk profile. 312 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination The adviser has a documented process for selecting investments based on client’s investment objectives and financial situation. The adviser must understand the nature and risks of products or assets selected for clients. The adviser must have a reasonable basis for believing that a recommendation or transaction entered into: a. meets the client’s investment objectives; b. is such that the client is able to bear any related investment risks consistent with its investment objectives and risk tolerance; c. is such that the client has the necessary experience and knowledge to understand the risks involved in the transaction. When an advice or recommendation is given to a client to purchase a complex financial product, such a recommendation or advice must be based upon a reasonable assessment that the structure and risk reward profile of financial product is consistent with clients experience, knowledge, investment objectives, risk appetite and capacity for absorbing loss. d. Disclosures to Clients It is the responsibility of the Investment Adviser to make certain disclosures to the client in order for the client to take an informed decision whether or not to avail its services. These disclosures include the following: Material information about the adviser, the business, history, terms and conditions, affiliations with other intermediaries. Consideration received/receivable by it or any of its associates from any distribution or execution services for securities or products for which investment advice is provided. Any consideration receivable by investment adviser on recommendation of a stock broker or other intermediary to the client if the client decides to avail services of such entity. Own holdings in respect of products or securities that are subject matter of advice. Actual or potential conflicts of interest with issuer of product/security. Material facts relating to key features of the products/securities, its performance track record, warnings and disclaimers, and advertising material. e. Record Maintenance An investment adviser is required to maintain the following records in physical or electronic format for a minimum period of five years: Know Your Client records of the client; Risk profiling and risk assessment of the client; Suitability assessment of the advice being provided; 313 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination Copies of agreements with clients, if any; Investment advice provided, whether written or oral; Rationale for arriving at investment advice, duly signed and dated; A register or record containing list of the clients, the date of advice, nature of the advice, products / securities in which advice was rendered and fee, if any charged for such advice. The adviser must conduct yearly audit in respect of compliance with regulatory requirements from a member of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India or Institute of Company Secretaries of India. f. Segregation of execution services Investment advisers which are banks, NBFCs and body corporate providing distribution or execution services to their clients must keep their investment advisory services segregated from such activities. Distribution or execution services can only be offered subject to the following: The client is not under any obligation to avail the distribution or execution services offered by the investment adviser. The investment adviser maintains arms-length relationship between its activities as investment adviser and distribution or execution services. All fees and charges paid to distribution or execution service providers by the client are paid directly to the service providers and not through the investment adviser. g. Other responsibilities A compliance officer must be appointed by an investment adviser which is a body corporate or a partnership firm for monitoring the compliance by the investment adviser in respect of the requirements of the SEBI Act, Regulations and notifications issued from time to time. The investment adviser must have an adequate client grievance redressal mechanism and should redress client grievances promptly. 12.1.5 Code of Conduct for Investment Adviser The SEBI (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 has set out a code of conduct to be followed by all Investment Advisers at all times. The provisions of this code of conduct state as follows: I. Honesty and fairness An investment adviser shall act honestly, fairly and in the best interests of its clients and in the integrity of the market. 314 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination II. Diligence An investment adviser shall act with due skill, care and diligence in the best interests of its clients and shall ensure that its advice is offered after thorough analysis and taking into account available alternatives. III. Capabilities An investment adviser shall have and employ effectively appropriate resources and procedures which are needed for the efficient performance of its business activities. IV. Information about clients An investment adviser shall seek from its clients, information about their financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives relevant to the services to be provided and maintain confidentiality of such information. V. Information to its clients An investment adviser shall make adequate disclosures of relevant material information while dealing with its clients. VI. Fair and reasonable charges An investment adviser advising a client may charge fees, subject to any ceiling as may be specified by the Board, if any. The investment adviser shall ensure that fees charged to the clients are fair and reasonable. VII. Conflicts of interest An investment adviser shall try to avoid conflicts of interest as far as possible and when they cannot be avoided, it shall ensure that appropriate disclosures are made to the clients and that the clients are fairly treated. VIII. Compliance An investment adviser including its representative(s) shall comply with all regulatory requirements applicable to the conduct of its business activities so as to promote the best interests of clients and the integrity of the market. IX. Responsibility of senior management The senior management of a body corporate which is registered as investment adviser shall bear primary responsibility for ensuring the maintenance of appropriate standards of conduct and adherence to proper procedures by the body corporate. 315 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination 12.2. Regulatory System and Environment Regulation of the Securities Markets is motivated by the need to safeguard the interests of investors. What is paramount is to ensure that investors make informed decisions about their financial transactions on the basis of a fair understanding of various markets which enable such financial transactions. This implies that the entities issuing securities and units ought to furnish adequate disclosures on all relevant facts and the intermediaries selling/advising/distributing such products execute the financial transactions in the most efficient manner while charging a fair and appropriate cost of transaction. There are many other issues, which warrant regulation. For example, deliberately engineered speculative activities in the stock market or insider trading are undesirable as they can hurt investors at large. Similarly, some mutual funds may take excessive risks, while some issuers of debt securities may not care to provide adequate collateral. These are many instances of unethical activities which can be detrimental to investors in general. These, if allowed to go unchecked, will lead to a drying up of investment activity, which is the lifeblood of capital formation in any economy. The idea of regulating an industry is to optimize the benefits for all its stakeholders and at the same time protecting the interests of the consumers. The financial sector in India is regulated by several regulatory authorities. The Central Government has created separate entities to regulate different sectors of the financial system. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) regulates commercial banks, the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) regulates securities markets and is responsible for its orderly growth and protection of investors’ interests, the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) regulates insurance companies, the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) regulates the pension sector, while the Forward Markets Commission (FMC) regulates the commodities futures sector. The Central Government exercises a certain level of oversight on these and other regulatory institutions. Additionally, intermediaries representing some segment of the securities markets may form a Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO). For recognition as an SRO by SEBI, certain conditions have to be met as spelt out under the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Self Regulatory Organizations) Regulations, 2004. Ideally, an SRO will seek to uphold investors’ interest by laying and maintaining high ethical and professional standards of conduct and encouraging best practices among its members. The ruling given by a regulator may be challenged by petitioning the prescribed authority. In the case of SEBI, for example, the appellate authority is the Securities Appellate Tribunal (SAT). Rulings of the SAT can be challenged in the Supreme Court of India. Importantly, no civil court shall entertain any suit or proceeding relating to a matter which an adjudicating officer appointed under the SEBI Act, or under a duly constituted SAT, is empowered under the said Act to decide upon. Further, no injunction can be granted by any court or any other 316 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination authority with regard to any action taken or to be taken pursuant to any power conferred by the SEBI Act. 12.3. Role of Regulators 12.3.1 Ministry of Finance and its Departments The Ministry of Finance (MoF) has a wide range of responsibilities. It has five departments under it, whose roles are briefly described below: a) Department of Economic Affairs is the nodal agency of the Central Government to formulate and monitor India’s macroeconomic policies, covering monetary and fiscal policy as well as the functioning of the Capital Market including stock exchanges. Other responsibilities include the mobilization of external resources and issuance of bank notes and coins. b) Department of Expenditure is concerned with, among other things, the administration of various financial rules and regulations including service conditions of all Central Government employees. The department is also involved with matters such as financial assistance to states and borrowings by states. c) Department of Revenue exercises control over matters relating to direct and indirect taxes of the Central Government, through two statutory boards, viz., the Central Board of Direct Taxes and Central Board of Excise and Customs. d) Department of Financial Services administers government policies relating to: Public sector banks. Term-lending financial institutions. Life Insurance and General Insurance. Pension Reforms. e) Department of Disinvestment oversees, among other things, all matters relating to the disinvestment of Central Government equity from Central Public Sector undertakings. The department is also concerned with the financial policy relating to the utilization of proceeds of disinvestment. 12.3.2 The Ministry of Corporate Affairs It is mainly concerned with the administration of the Companies Act, 2013 and other allied acts, rules and regulations pertaining to the corporate sector. The Ministry is also responsible for administering the Competition Act 2002 which is to replace the Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act, 1969. The Ministry also supervises three professional bodies, viz., the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, the Institute of Company 317 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination Secretaries of India and the Institute of Cost and Works Accountants of India. The Ministry of Corporate Affairs is also vested with the responsibility of administering the Partnership Act, 1932, the Companies (Donations to National Funds) Act, 1951 and Societies Registration Act, 1980. 12.3.3 Role of Regulators Besides the Ministry of Finance, the financial sector in India is regulated by several regulatory organizations. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as the manager of Public debt, is responsible for the primary issue of Government securities, all contracts involving such securities and money market instruments The Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI), is the apex regulator of the securities market and also responsible for its orderly growth and protection of the investor’s interests. Other regulators such as the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA) and the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) have been set up with the specific mandate to regulate the functioning and growth of particular industries. a. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) RBI is the central bank of the country and is vested with the responsibility of administering the monetary policy. Therefore, its key concern is to ensure the adequate growth of money supply in the economy so that economic growth and financial transactions are facilitated, but not so rapidly which may precipitate inflationary trends. This is borne out in its Preamble, in which the basic functions of