1932, the Companies (Donations to National Funds) Act, 1951 and Societies Registration Act, 1980. 12.3.3 Role of Regulators Besides the Ministry of Finance, the financial sector in India is regulated by several regulatory organizations. The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) as the manager of Public debt, is responsible for the primary issue of Government securities, all contracts involving such securities and money market instruments The Securities Exchange Board of India (SEBI), is the apex regulator of the securities market and also responsible for its orderly growth and protection of the investor’s interests. Other regulators such as the Insurance Regulatory Development Authority (IRDA) and the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) have been set up with the specific mandate to regulate the functioning and growth of particular industries. a. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) RBI is the central bank of the country and is vested with the responsibility of administering the monetary policy. Therefore, its key concern is to ensure the adequate growth of money supply in the economy so that economic growth and financial transactions are facilitated, but not so rapidly which may precipitate inflationary trends. This is borne out in its Preamble, in which the basic functions of the Bank are thus defined: “…to regulate the issue of Bank Notes and keeping of reserves with a view to securing monetary stability in India and generally to operate the currency and credit system of the country to its advantage”. In addition to the primary responsibility of administering India’s monetary policy, RBI has other onerous responsibilities, such as financial supervision. RBI’s functions are governed by the Reserve Bank of India Act 1934, whereas the financial sector is governed by the Banking Regulation Act 1949. The main functions of RBI are: 1. As the monetary authority: To formulate, implement and monitor the monetary policy in a manner as to maintain price stability while ensuring an adequate flow of credit to productive sectors of the economy. 2. As the regulator and supervisor of the financial system: To prescribe broad parameters of banking operations within which India’s banking and financial system functions. The objective here is to maintain public confidence in the system, protect depositors’ interest and facilitate cost-effective banking services to the public. 3. As the manager of Foreign Exchange: To administer the Foreign Exchange Management Act 1999, in a manner as to facilitate external trade and payment and promote orderly development and maintenance of the foreign exchange market in India. 318 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination 4. As the issuer of currency: To issue currency and coins and to exchange or destroy the same when not fit for circulation. The objective that guides RBI here is to ensure the circulation of an adequate quantity of currency notes and coins of good quality. 5. Developmental role: To perform a wide range of promotional functions to support national objectives. 6. Banking functions: a) It acts as a banker to the Government and manages issuances of Central and State Government Securities. b) It acts as a banker to the banks by maintaining the banking accounts of all scheduled banks. The general superintendence and direction of RBI’s affairs are looked after by a Central Board of Directors (BoD) which is appointed by the Government of India. Further, each of the four regions in the country is served by a Local Board which advises the Central Board on local issues and represents territorial and economic interests of local co-operative and indigenous banks. The Local Boards will also perform other functions as delegated by the Central Board. RBI performs the important function of financial supervision under the guidance of the Board for Financial Supervision (BFS) which was constituted in 1994 as a committee of the Central Board of Directors. The primary objective of the BFS is to carry out consolidated supervision of the financial sector consisting of commercial banks, financial institutions and non-banking finance companies. The BFS oversees the functioning of the Department of Banking Supervision, the Department of Non-Banking Supervision and Financial Institutions Division and issues directions on regulatory and supervisory issues. b. Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI), a statutory body appointed by an Act of Parliament (SEBI Act, 1992), is the chief regulator of securities markets in India. The Preamble of the Securities and Exchange Board of India describes the basic functions of the Securities and Exchange Board of India as "...to protect the interests of investors in securities and to promote the development of, and to regulate the securities market and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto". SEBI regulates capital market intermediaries such as stock exchanges, brokers, trustees of trust deeds, merchant bankers, bankers to an issue, underwriters, portfolio managers, mutual funds, depositories, depository participants, venture capital funds, and alternative investment funds, Foreign Institutional Investors, custodians and Registrars & Transfer agents in the country. Market intermediaries are regulated by SEBI by prescribing 319 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination registration norms for intermediaries, issue of regulations, notifications and circulars from time to time for compliance by the intermediaries, calling for information from the intermediaries, carrying out inspections, and taking action against non-compliance. The website of SEBI (www.sebi.gov.in) holds updated and comprehensive list of regulations, rules, circulars and notifications issued there under by SEBI. A useful download is a Master Circular, which captures the essence of various circulars issued for a calendar year. Functions of SEBI The SEBI Act, 1992 spells out the functions that SEBI shall perform. These include the following: • Regulating and registration: SEBI regulates the business in stock exchanges and other securities markets. It registers and regulates the working of intermediaries associated with the securities market such as stock brokers, sub-brokers, share transfer agents, bankers to an issue, trustees of trust deeds, registrars to an issue, merchant bankers, underwriters, portfolio managers, investment advisers depositories, participants, custodians of securities, foreign institutional investors, credit rating agencies, venture capital funds, collective investment schemes, mutual funds and such other intermediaries as may be specified by SEBI. SEBI is also involved in promoting and regulating self-regulatory organisations. The Regulations specify the net worth, experience, infrastructure and other requirements necessary for an intermediary to be eligible for registration. • Prohibition of unfair trade practices: An important function of SEBI is to prohibit fraudulent and unfair trade practices relating to securities markets. SEBI also prohibits insider trading in securities which is detrimental to the interests of the investors. Insider trading refers to the dealing in securities by persons connected with a company having material information that is not available to the public. Such persons include the directors and employees of the company, associates such as bankers and tax consultants or government employees who get sensitive information. The SEBI (Prohibition of Insider Trading Regulations), 1992 seeks to prevent insider trading which erodes the confidence of the common investor in the securities markets. SEBI’s guidelines require companies to have comprehensive code of conduct to prevent such activity. This includes appointing a compliance officer to enforce it, ensuring periodic disclosure of holding by all persons considered as insiders and ensuring data confidentiality and adherence to the requirements of the listing agreement on flow of price sensitive information. If an insider trading charge is proved pursuant to SEBI’s investigation, the penalties include monetary penalties, criminal prosecution, prohibiting persons from securities markets and declaring transactions as void. • Conduct inquiries/inspections: If SEBI is of the opinion that some intermediary is involved in such activities, or is not complying with the SEBI Regulations, it has the 320 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination power to call for information, undertake inspection, conduct inquiries and audits, summon witnesses from such intermediaries. SEBI can take any of the following measures in the interest of investors: o Suspend the trading of any security in a recognized stock exchange; o Restrain persons from accessing the securities market and prohibit any person associated with securities market to buy, sell or deal in securities; o Suspend any office-bearer of any stock exchange or self- regulatory organization from holding such position; o Impound and retain the proceeds or securities in respect of any transaction which is under investigation; o Attach, after passing of an order on an application made for approval by the Judicial Magistrate of the first class having jurisdiction, for a period not exceeding one month, one or more bank account or accounts of any intermediary or any person involved; o Direct any intermediary or any person associated with the securities market in any manner not to dispose of or alienate an asset forming part of any transaction which is under investigation: • SEBI is also involved in promoting investor education and training of intermediaries of securities markets. • SEBI regulates substantial acquisition of shares and take-over of companies. c. Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) IRDA’s mission is to regulate, promote and ensure orderly growth of the insurance sector, including the re-insurance business, while ensuring protection of the interests of insurance policyholders. IRDA was constituted by an act of parliament and according to Section 4 of the IRDA Act 1999 the Authority comprises ten members who are all government appointees. The powers and functions of the authority include the following: • Issuing a certificate of registration or renewing, modifying, withdrawing, suspending or cancelling such registration. • Protecting the interests of policyholders in matters relating to assignment of policy, nomination by policyholders, insurable interest, settlement of insurance claim, surrender value of policy and other clauses of insurance contracts. • Spelling out the required qualifications, code of conduct and practical training for intermediaries including insurance intermediaries and agents. • Specifying the code of conduct for surveyors and loss assessors. • Seeking information, undertaking inspection, conducting inquiries and investigations including audit of the insurer, intermediaries and others. 321 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination • To control and regulate the rates and terms and conditions that may be offered by insurers with regard to general insurance, which are not covered by the Tariff Advisory Committee. • Regulating the investment of funds by insurance companies. d. Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) The PFRDA is the authority entrusted with the following responsibilities under the PFRDA Act, 2013: To promote old age income security by establishing, developing and regulating pension funds To protect the interests of subscribers to schemes of pension funds and related matters The Act and its provisions apply to the National Pension System (NPS) and other pension schemes not regulated by any other enactment. The NPS will be based on defined contributions. It will also offer a menu of investment choices and Fund Managers. Though the new system is voluntary, it would be mandatory for new recruits to the Central Government, except the armed forces. It will also be available on a voluntary basis to all persons including self-employed professionals and others in the unorganized sector. However, mandatory programmes under the Employees Provident Fund Organization and other special provident funds will continue to operate according to the existing system, under the Employees Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act 1952 and other special acts governing these funds. The functions and responsibilities of the PFRDA under the Act include: Regulating the National Pension System and any other pension schemes to which the act applies Approving the schemes and their terms and investment guidelines to manage the corpus Registering and regulating intermediaries Protecting the interests of the subscribers by ensuring the funds are managed according to the mandate received, costs of management are reasonable and establishing a mechanism for redressal. Educating subscribers and the general public on matters relating to retirement savings The PFRDA shall have search and seizure powers to investigate any instance of contravention of the provisions of the Act. The Act gives the PFRDA the authority to ensure compliance of intermediaries and others associated with the scheme, and if found to be in violation impose penalties and other corrective measures. The PFRDA will be subject to the directions of the Central Government on all matters of policy. It shall also submit periodical reports on various aspects of its functioning, the pension sector, and other matters required by the government. 322 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination 12.4. Role of Self-Regulatory Organizations (SRO) An SRO is a regulatory authority of an industry, appointed by the regulator to perform specific functions. SRO in India is governed by the SEBI (Self Regulatory Organizations) Regulations, 2004. An SRO is an organization of intermediaries which represents a particular segment of the securities market and which is duly recognized by SEBI. In the developed world, it is common for market players to create Self-Regulatory Organizations, whose prime responsibility is to regulate their own members. Wherever SROs exist, the statutory regulatory bodies set up by the Government (like SEBI in India) only lay down the broad policy framework, and leave the micro-regulation to the SRO. For example, stock exchanges perform some of the regulatory functions on behalf of SEBI. The mutual fund industry does not have an SRO, yet. The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) regulates its own members. An amendment to the Regulations in January 2013 has brought within its purview, an SRO formed by distributors of mutual funds and portfolio management services. An SRO needs to be registered and recognized by SEBI after following a registration process that lays down norms for professional competence of the Board, infrastructure and capital requirements. The SRO Regulations lay down certain obligations and responsibilities on SROs. An SRO must always abide by the directions of the SEBI and act in the best interest of investors. It is responsible for specifying a code of conduct for its members and ensuring implementation of the same. The SRO can also conduct inspection and audit of its members. It is bound to report any violations or non-compliance by any of its members to SEBI. The SRO conducts screening, certification tests and training programmes for its members and endeavours to promote best business practices amongst its members. 12.5. Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 Money laundering involves disguising financial assets so that they can be used without detection of the illegal activity that produced them. Through money laundering, the launderer transforms the monetary proceeds derived from criminal activity into funds with an apparently legal source. The Prevention of Money-Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA), is an act to prevent money- laundering and to provide for confiscation of property derived from, or involved in, money- laundering and for related matters. Chapter II, section 3 describes the offence of money- laundering thus: Whoever directly or indirectly attempts to indulge, or knowingly assists or knowingly is a party or is actually involved, in any process or activity connected with the 323 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination proceeds of crime and projecting it as untainted property shall be guilty of the offence of money-laundering. Section 12 of PMLA stipulates that every banking company, financial institution and intermediary shall maintain a record of all transactions, the nature and value of which may be prescribed, whether such transactions comprise a single transaction or a series of transactions integrally connected to each other, and where such series of transactions take place within a month and furnish information of transactions and verify and maintain the records of the identity of all its clients. Provided that where the principal officer of a banking company or financial institution or intermediary, as the case may be, has reason to believe that a single transaction or series of transactions integrally connected to each other have been valued below the prescribed value so as to defeat the provisions of this section, such officer shall furnish information in respect of such transactions to the Director within the prescribed time. The records shall be maintained for a period of ten years from the date of cessation of the transactions between the clients and the banking company or financial institution or intermediary, as the case may be. The offence of money laundering is punishable with rigorous imprisonment for a term which shall not be less than 3 years but which may extend to 7 years and shall also be liable to fine, which may extend to Rs.5 lakhs. Anti Money Laundering (AML) Measures There are several ways to check money laundering. Given below are some of the measures that a stock broking firm can adopt for anti money laundering: Organizing training programs on anti money laundering for the staff , especially personnel engaged in KYC, settlement, demat and account opening process Verifying documents of clients during the account opening process Personally interviewing clients who have declared wealth above Rs.10 lakhs or intend to trade (intraday) above Rs.2 crore in a month or who have given initial margin of Rs.4 to 5 lakhs and above in the form of monies or securities Interviewing clients who are NRIs or corporate/trust who promote NRIs Gauging the risk appetite of the client, as it helps in finding out any suspicious trading or transactions in the future Scrutinizing documents including income documents of the employee involved in maintaining and updating critical information about the transactions of the client and also of the employees who facilitate transactions of the clients like dealers, settlement officers. 324 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination 12.6. Code of Conduct and Ethics 1. Securities and Exchange Board of India (Intermediaries) Regulations, 2008 Excerpts from the Code of Conduct I. Investor Protection a. Investors/Clients Every intermediary shall make all efforts to protect the interests of investors and shall render the best possible advice to its clients having regard to the client’s needs and the environments and his own professional skills. b. High Standards of Service An intermediary shall ensure that it and its key management personnel, employees, contractors and agents, shall in the conduct of their business, observe high standards of integrity, dignity, fairness, ethics and professionalism and all Professional dealings shall be affected in a prompt, effective and efficient manner. An intermediary shall be responsible for the acts or omissions of its employees and agents in respect to the conduct of its business. c. Exercise of Due Diligence and no Collusion An intermediary shall at all times render high standard s of service, exercise due skill and diligence over persons employed or appointed by it, ensure proper care and exercise independent professional judgment and shall not at any time act in collusion with other intermediaries in a manner that is detrimental to the investor(s). d. Fees An intermediary shall not increase charges/ fees for the services rendered without proper advance notice to its clients/investors. II. Disbursal of Amounts An intermediary shall be prompt in disbursing dividends, interests or any such accrual income received or collected by it on behalf of its clients/investors. III. Disbursal of Information An intermediary shall ensure that adequate disclosures are made to the clients/investors in a comprehensible and timely manner so as to enable them to make a balanced and informed decision. An intermediary shall not make any misrepresentation and ensure that the information provided to the clients/investors is not misleading. 325 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination An intermediary shall not make any exaggerated statement whether oral or written to the client/investor, either about its qualification or capability to render certain services or its achievements in regard to services rendered to other clients/investors. An intermediary shall not divulge to anybody, either orally or in writing, directly or indirectly, any confidential information about its clients/investors, which has come to its knowledge, without taking prior permission of its clients/investors except where such disclosures are required to be made in compliance with any law for the time being in force. 2. AMFI Code of conduct - Code of Conduct for Intermediaries of Mutual Funds The AMFI code of conduct prescribes the following for the intermediaries in the mutual fund industry in the conduct of their business. 1. Consider investor’s interest as paramount and take necessary steps to ensure that the investor’s interest is protected in all circumstances. 2. Adhere to SEBI Mutual Fund Regulations and guidelines issued from time to time related to distributors, selling, distribution and advertising practices. Be fully conversant with the key provisions of the Scheme Information Document (SID), Statement of Additional Information (SAI) and Key Information Memorandum (KIM) as well as the operational requirements of various schemes. 3. Comply with SEBI guidelines / requirements issued from time to time in preparation of sales, promotional or any other literature about any schemes. Performance disclosures should also comply with the requirements specified by SEBI. Provide full and latest information of schemes to investors in the form of SAI, SID, addenda, performance reports, fact sheets, portfolio disclosures and brochures; and recommend schemes appropriate for the investor’s risk profile and needs. 4. Highlight risk factors of each scheme, desist from misrepresentation and exaggeration and urge investors to go through SAI / SID/ KIM before deciding to make investments. 5. Disclose to the investors all material information including all the commissions (in the form of trail or any other mode) received for the different competing schemes of various Mutual Funds from amongst which the scheme is being recommended to the investors. 6. Abstain from indicating or assuring returns in any type of scheme, unless the SID is explicit in this regard. 7. Maintain necessary infrastructure to support the AMCs in maintaining high service standards to investors, and ensure that critical operations such as forwarding forms and cheques to AMCs/registrars and despatch of statement of account and redemption cheques to investors are done within the time frame prescribed in the SID/SAI and SEBI’s Mutual Fund Regulations. 326 NISM-Series-X-A: Investment Adviser (Level 1) Certification Examination 8. Desist from colluding with investors in faulty business practices such as bouncing of cheques, wrong claiming of dividend/redemption cheques, splitting of applications in the schemes to circumvent regulations for any benefit, etc. 9. Abstain from commission driven malpractices such as: recommending inappropriate products solely because the intermediary is getting higher commissions there from. encouraging over transacting and churning of Mutual Fund investments to earn higher commissions. Splitting of applications to earn higher transaction charges / commissions. 10. Abstain from making negative statements about any AMC or scheme and ensure that comparisons, if any, are made with